Exercises
=========

Before starting on an exercise please read through the entire text to
get a better overview of the exercise. Also check out the cheat sheets
for Node.js and curl, they contain valuable hints and tips.

Each exercise has two directories: `start/` is where you as a
participant should start to solve each exercise. `solution/` contains
a complete solution for the exercise. There is also a README file that
describe the exercise in detail.

Background
----------

You are working for Ads'r'us; a company that sell classified
advertisement online. As the company is thriving and growing your job
is to implement the Ads'r'us API.

Cheat sheets
------------

 * [Node.js](#node-cheat-sheet)
 * [curl](#curl-cheat-sheet)

Participant Requirements
------------------------

Each participant needs to have these tools installed:

* node.js and npm. All the exercises use node.js.
* MongoDB
* git to clone this repository
* curl, a command line HTTP client. Useful for scripting and
  debugging http servers

### Node.js and NPM

**Linux**

Linux users can install binaries through their distribution's package
repository.

**OS X and Windows**

For OS X and Windows we recommend using the binaries that are
available for download from [nodejs.org](http://nodejs.org/download/).

### MongoDB

**Linux**

Linux users can install binaries through their distribution's package
repository.

**OSX**

For OS X, MongoDB is available through MacPorts, Homebrew and as
binary downloads from [mongodb.org](http://www.mongodb.org/downloads).
Choose the binary download unless you're already familiar with
MacPorts or Homebrew.

The
[instructions](http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-os-x/)
describes how to get started in any case.

**Windows**

For Windows use the binaries available from
[http://mongodb.org](http://www.mongodb.org/downloads) and follow the
[instructions](http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-windows/).
You do not need to install it as a Windows Service.

### Git

**Linux**

Linux users can install binaries through their distribution's package
repository.

**Windows**

There are generic git binaries available from
[git-scm.com](http://git-scm.com/downloads) but we recommend using
[GitHub for Windows](http://windows.github.com/) as it includes a GUI
in addition to the normal command line tools.

GitHub for Windows also includes curl so you don't have to install
curl.

**OS X**

There are generic git binaries available from
[git-scm.com](http://git-scm.com/downloads) but we recommend using
[GitHub for Mac](http://mac.github.com/) as it includes a GUI in
addition to the normal command line tools.

### curl

**Linux**

Linux users can install binaries through their distribution's package
repository.

**OS X**

Curl is shipped with OS X.

**Windows**

For Windows you can download curl with Cygwin if you're already using
Cygwin. If not, download the binaries from
[curl.haxx.se](http://curl.haxx.se/download.html). Search for "win32"
or "win64" depending on your platform.
